hello everyone its Alena and I'm back
for another video and today I wanted to
talk to you guys about how I got a 7 in
global politics while I did the IP now I
originally didn't really want to do this
video because I graduates it's back in
2018 but I've gotten so many messages
about this since I graduated so I
decided I'm gonna go back over all of my
notes and figure out what it was that
got me that 7 and yet here are the
things that I think got me 7 in global
politics now before we get into it I
quickly wanted to introduce you to the
sponsor of today's video which is skill
chair skill show is an online learning
community over 25,000 courses and you
can learn pretty much anything there so
if there's something on your list of
things that you wanted to learn and you
just didn't really know where to start
learning it Skillshare is probably the
right place to do it I've been using
skill sure to learn how to draw more in
my iPad Pro because I'm not really an SI
but I didn't want to use my iPad for
more and Scotia has really helped me to
just you know use some easy techniques
which you don't need to be very very
talented in order to create some artwork
which actually looks pretty decent
so yeah I really love skill sure because
there's just so much underneath you can
learn and I think it's a really really
great platform to explore and you know
learn new things and Premium Membership
gives you access to all of their courses
and it's super affordable because less
than ten dollars a month and you can
actually try out free Premium Membership
for two months by using the link in the
info box below so you can see whether
Skillshare is the right thing for you so
yeah I hope you guys will enjoy your
free premium membership with Skillshare
and now let's get into the video my
first tip is to organize all of your
notes by units because that will help
you so much when you look at your exam
because especially in paper 2 they tell
you which units the questions belong to
but even in paper one they have a
heading and it tells you which unit it
belongs to and it's just really useful
to know exactly which concepts link to
which unit which case studies you have
for which unit and if you just study all
of that as like you know one chunk per
unit it helps you when you then look at
the questions because you have all of
these things math in your mind as
belonging together so it's easier to
draw on them while you're in the exam
next thing is don't treat the key
concepts as just words that you need to
drop no flush them out really work on
defining these key concepts you cannot
just go about them like oh okay this is
a word you know
learn the general definition and that's
it no these key concepts are a lot more
important and you really need to work on
figuring out what different meanings
there are you know figure out new
answers to them and then figure out how
you can use them especially in paper too
an example here is sovereignty there's a
lot of debate surrounding sovereignty
and it feels of international relations
you know if sovereignty still absolute
just someone to even still exist in the
21st century given that we have the UN
and organisations like the European
Union on States truly sovereign or is
this a new kind of sovereignty things
like that know who the key fingers are
for these concepts know what different
definitions are out there about these
concepts and then know how to use them
because if you have a paper to question
that has a key concept in it or relates
to a key concept and your faeces and
arguments for that paper too will depend
on your definition and if you know a few
definitions for this concept you can
actually make different arguments based
on different definitions so an example
here would be well the statement is
right if you take definition of scholar
8th but it is debatable under the
definition of scholar B and then you can
make arguments for which definition is
more convincing and thereby deciding
whether the statement that the question
is referring to is right or wrong so you
can actually turn the question a bit
more into a question about definitions
that's a very safe ground to write on if
you don't know a lot about the statement
but you do have a very good background
in these concepts and it also shows your
examiner that you have done a lot more
than just look at these concepts one's
write down the Wikipedia definition and
then you moved on next let's talk about
case studies unfortunately for case
studies breath is still a lot more
important than depth and it is really
easy to summarize what you should do for
case studies write them down in one
sentence on your notes and that's it
I'm going to eat they don't want you to
have a lot of detail it's just shown and
you know how much time you have for the
exam you can go really into depth with
your case studies if you want to while
you're in the course but in my
experience it doesn't really help you
because you don't have that much time in
the exam they want to see different case
studies so they don't want to see you
know aspects of one case study duo's
essays
don't do as well as you can see it like
in terms of like what the reports say so
instead go for a lot of case studies
know them but you know you don't need to
know too much detail so if you can
summarize them in one to two sentences
that's usually sufficient just think
about how much time you have for writing
out an argument and how much writing
space you can then allocate to one case
study and it's probably only a few lines
so once two sentences should be
sufficient so I would recommend getting
more case studies but knowing them only
an outline rather than knowing one case
study in a lot of detail because in my
experience you just don't have the time
to write it down
I did one in-depth case study on the war
in Syria and I knew all of these very
detailed numbers but it took me five
lines so you can just explain what these
numbers meant and that was wasted time
in an exam and that's why I didn't use
that technique in my finals in my finals
I only went for more general case
studies that I only really knew an
outline but that was enough next you
need to practice you need to practice a
lot and I know that there aren't that
many passed papers out there for global
politics but there is still a good
amount of them and even if you run out
of passed papers you can ask your
teacher for more questions they can
usually come up with some pretty decent
ones and then write on them and I know
that writing these essays takes a very
long time and you don't have that time
every week to practice that so I would
highly recommend writing essay plans
instead you can do that in ten to
fifteen minutes
hand it in to your teacher and get some
feedback just on the plan and the bonus
is that you learn how to plan because a
lot of people only practice the writing
of the essays and not the planning but
the planning is really the thing that
sets you up for success is your plan
good and did you write it in a
sufficient amount of time because if you
need longer than seven minutes to write
a plan you've lost too much writing time
in your exam because really the main
time should be spent on writing the
essay not the plan so by writing plans
under time constraints you are training
yourself for the exam and you are also
making sure that you can come up with
good arguments next let's talk about
books and generally resources for
studying the course because the course
is pretty new and there isn't a lot out
there that you can use in order to
inform yourself about the topic I
remember when I thought the course there
wasn't even one textbook for
politics for the IB which is a bit
ridiculous but yeah that's how we
stopped it out and one thing that I
learned is that there's actually so much
material out there which is intended for
undergraduate political science or
international relations majors but it's
absolutely fine to use it for the IB so
I would recommend instead of looking for
global politics books on the internet
look for international relations or
political science books they have all
the same theories and then they give you
the same name of the scholars they're
usually actually written more concisely
than the textbook which was out by the
end of my course and in all honesty I
think they give you exactly the same
information so you don't need to worry
about the very limited amount of
resources for global politics because
you can just tap into the vast amount of
resources for international relations
and political science and the bonuses
that you can then cite these books in
your presentation and it just shows that
you've done that extra bit of research
by you know tapping into undergraduate
resources instead of just high school
resources which may make your examiner
be a little bit more favorable towards
you and lastly let's talk about the HL
extensions so if you are a high level
student in global politics then you will
have to do these higher level extensions
or at least you have to back when I did
it
but the people who tried to persuade me
in my DMS did tell me that the syllabus
hasn't changed so I'm believing them and
I think you still have to do two of
these presentations and so here is my
strategy for these presentations so I
was told don't do slides examinees don't
like slides don't make it fancy just
focus on the analysis and I think I was
really really good advice because me in
high school
was like you know spending hours on
picking the right font for my PowerPoint
presentation
I have since learned that that was
stupid and that you don't need to do
that but I think in high school a lot of
people are tempted to do that so don't
do it
if you need slides only use them for
things like maps you know stuff that you
really can't explain but don't put any
text there it's unnecessary you don't
need it and your examiner really only
cares about your analysis focus on the
content rather than how fancy it looks
they don't care about that they really
only care about the analysis and next
pick a topic that you can discuss in the
time frame that is given to you remember
if you don't need to
explain the situation unity explained
situation link in two key concepts make
sure it's clear how it sits in the
context of global politics and give a
solid analysis so you have to pick
something very specific that you can
explain in a very very short amount of
time and I'm gonna explain to you guys
how I picked the two topics that I used
for my HL extensions which both scored
in the upper mark bands and so by using
these two examples I'm going to show you
guys what my strategy is for picking a
good topic for these presentations so my
first question was how effective has the
ICC been in protecting human security in
Darfur since 2009 so the ICC the
International Criminal Court did indict
the President of Sudan because of a
genocide and war crimes and now he has
actually been stripped of power but back
then he was still in power so that was a
really interesting case study because it
raised questions of you know okay so
sovereignty of Sudan the power of the
president but also the power of
international institutions like the ICC
and you know how can they enforce it and
you could link it to human rights so
there's a lot that you could unpack
there and but it was also very easy to
understand because you could be like
okay so they indicted him for war crimes
first then genocide and yeah then the
violence shortly decreased and then
everything went back to the status quo
and nothing else really happened and
that's it and so that was really really
easy to explain and you know a minute
and everybody in the class could
understand it and that's how you know
you've picked a really good case study
the other way you could go about this is
if you pick a case study that may take a
little bit longer to explain but while
you explain it you can already raise
these links to different key concepts
and different theories and that is what
I did with my second HL extension
presentation so my second topic was does
the de facto change of cordis in the
West Bank resulting from Israeli
settlements improve Israel's bargaining
position in the israel-palestine
conflict now aside from the fact this is
a pretty long question in this question
is already a theory which is that of
bargaining range so while I am
explaining this concept of bargaining
range to my peers I'm already talking
about the theory and I can bring in
different scholars the other thing is I
can
you talk about borders which is a topic
for the HL extensions and then this may
take a bit more time to explain because
you know the israel-palestine conflict
is usually not explained within a minute
but while you explain it you are
touching on so many key concepts and
different theories of the course that I
think you can justify spending three
minutes on an explanation of the
situation so you know while you explain
it you could touch on things like
sovereignty like borders but also things
about resources human rights etc there
are so many aspects of this conflict
which just very very conveniently link
back to the course that I think when you
have a topic like that even though it
takes more time to explain it is
absolutely worth using because your
explanation already links back to key
things about the course so I think your
examiner would forgive a bit of a longer
explanation which may not be as
analytical you know it's your Lecce
analysis but nonetheless it does give a
good idea of how does things back to the
course of global politics and yeah those
are my tips before getting a seven and
goal of politics I hope that you guys
found this helpful and if you guys have
any other questions for me you can send
me a message for the context section of
my blog which is linked in the info box
below or you can also just leave a
comment here and I'll get back to you
guys thank you guys so much for watching
this video have a nice day bye